Update Agent Integrations developer setup page (#20204)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/developers/integrations/python.md

title: Install the Datadog Agent Integration Developer Tool
description: Install the Datadog Agent Integration Developer Tool.
---

> This document covers how to set up a Python environment to work on Agent-based Integrations, including installing the interpreter and ensuring all of the required dependencies are present. Alternatively, you can use the standalone binaries and installers provided with each release.

Reviewer: Rephrase to `This document covers setting up Python environment with all the required dependencies to work on Agent-based Integrations. Alternatively, you can directly use the standalone binaries and installers provided with each release.`

## Install Python

> Many operating systems come with a pre-installed version of Python. However, the version of Python installed by default may be older than the version used in the Agent, and may lack some required tools and dependencies. To ensure that you have everything you need to get an integration running, install a dedicated Python interpreter.

Reviewer: Rephrase to `However, Python version installed by default may be older than the version used in the Agent, and may lack some required tools and dependencies.` to limit sentence with 25 words or fewer.

{{< /tabs >}}

## Install developer tooling

You have 2 options to install the `ddev` CLI.

### Install using a GUI

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "MacOS" %}}

> 1. In your browser, download the `.pkg` file: [ddev-5.2.1.pkg](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1.pkg)

Reviewer: If the version is not auto updated, let's add a note stating to use the required version of ddev and 5.2.1 is provided as an example in all the referenced places.

Author: The version will be dynamically rendered in an upcoming PR

   ```shell
   sudo installer -pkg ./ddev-5.2.1.pkg -target /
   ```
3. Restart your terminal.
4. To verify that the shell can find and run the `ddev` command in your `PATH`, use the following command.
   ```shell
   ddev --version
   5.2.1
   ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Windows" %}}
1. Download and run the installer using the standard Windows [`msiexec`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/msiexec) program, specifying one of the `.msi` files as the source. Use the `/passive` and `/i` parameters to request an unattended, normal installation.
   - `x64`:
      ```shell
      msiexec /passive /i https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x64.msi

>       ```shell

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
      ```
~~~
Oops, wrong one

   - `x86`:

>       ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
      ```shell
~~~

{{< /tabs >}}

## Install developer tooling

You have 2 options to install the `ddev` CLI.

### Installers

#### Install - GUI

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "MacOS" %}}
1. In your browser, download the `.pkg` file: [ddev-5.2.1.pkg](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1.pkg)
2. Run your downloaded file and follow the on-screen instructions.
3. Restart your terminal.

> 4. To verify that the shell can find and run the `ddev` command in your `PATH`, use the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To verify that the `ddev` command has been added to your `PATH`, run the following command to retrieve the `ddev` version:
```

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
   ```shell
~~~
This adds the copy button and `$`

>    $ ddev --version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ddev --version
```

   5.2.1
   ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Windows" %}}

> 1. In your browser, download one the `.msi` files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your browser, download one of the following `.msi` files:
```

>      - [ddev-5.2.1-x64.msi](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x64.msi)
>      - [ddev-5.2.1-x86.msi](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x86.msi)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     - [ddev-5.2.1-x64.msi (64-bit)](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x64.msi)
     - [ddev-5.2.1-x86.msi (32-bit) ](https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x86.msi)
```

2. Run your downloaded file and follow the on-screen instructions.
3. Restart your terminal.

> 4. To verify that the shell can find and run the `ddev` command in your `PATH`, use the following command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To verify that the `ddev` command has been added to your `PATH`, run the following command to retrieve the `ddev` version:
```

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
   ```shell
~~~

>    $ ddev --version

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ddev --version
```

   5.2.1
   ```
{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> #### Install - command line

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install from the command line
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "MacOS" %}}
1. Download the file using the `curl` command. The `-o` option specifies the file name that the downloaded package is written to. In this example, the file is written to `ddev-5.2.1.pkg` in the current directory.

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
   ```shell
~~~

   curl -o ddev-5.2.1.pkg https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1.pkg
   ```

> 2. Run the standard macOS [`installer`](https://ss64.com/osx/installer.html) program, specifying the downloaded `.pkg` file as the source. Use the `-pkg` parameter to specify the name of the package to install, and the `-target /` parameter for the drive in which to install the package. The files are installed to `/usr/local/ddev`, and an entry is created at `/etc/paths.d/ddev` that instructs shells to add the `/usr/local/ddev` directory to. You must include sudo on the command to grant write permissions to those folders.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Run the standard macOS [`installer`](https://ss64.com/osx/installer.html) program, specifying the downloaded `.pkg` file as the source. Use the `-pkg` parameter to specify the name of the package to install, and the `-target /` parameter for the drive in which to install the package. The files are installed to `/usr/local/ddev`, and an entry is created at `/etc/paths.d/ddev` that instructs shells to add the `/usr/local/ddev` directory to. You must include `sudo` on the command to grant write permissions to those folders.
```

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
   ```shell
~~~

   sudo installer -pkg ./ddev-5.2.1.pkg -target /
   ```
3. Restart your terminal.
4. To verify that the shell can find and run the `ddev` command in your `PATH`, use the following command.
   ```

>    $ ddev --version

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
   ```shell
   ddev --version
~~~

   5.2.1
   ```
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Windows" %}}
1. Download and run the installer using the standard Windows [`msiexec`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/msiexec) program, specifying one of the `.msi` files as the source. Use the `/passive` and `/i` parameters to request an unattended, normal installation.
   - `x64`:

>       ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
      ```shell
~~~

      msiexec /passive /i https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x64.msi

>       ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
      ```shell
~~~

   - `x86`:
      ```
      msiexec /passive /i https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/releases/download/ddev-v5.2.1/ddev-5.2.1-x86.msi
      ```
2. Restart your terminal.
3. To verify that the shell can find and run the `ddev` command in your `PATH`, use the following command.
   ```
   $ ddev --version
   5.2.1

>    ```

Reviewer 2: ~~~suggestion
   ```shell
   ddev --version
   5.2.1
   ```
~~~

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> ### Standalone binaries

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install from a standalone binary
```

> After downloading the archive corresponding to your platform and architecture, extract the binary to a directory that is on your PATH and rename to `ddev`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After downloading the archive corresponding to your platform and architecture, extract the binary to a directory that is on your `PATH` and rename the binary to `ddev`.
```
